---
layout: post
title: Project 1
---
# Explain what I did in the project and any interesting finding

For this project, we were assigned to get data from the [NHL Records API](records-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab) and [NHL Stats API](stats-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab).

The first step was to connect the github repository to the R project and make sure I was able to make changes to the github repository using git commands.

After that, I had to create a README.Rmd file where all the code will be written. Next, I had to read in the necessary R packages that could read and parse the JSON data from the [NHL Records API](records-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab) and [NHL Stats API](stats-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab).

From here, I wrote 6 functions to contact the [NHL Records API](records-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab)  for certain endpoints such as `franchise`, `franchise-team-totals`,`franchise-season-records`, `franchise-goalie-records`, `franchise-skater-records`,`franchise-detail`.

Then I wrote a function to contact the [NHL Stats API](stats-api.md · master · Drew Hynes / nhlapi · GitLab) for the `team.stats` modifier. The function is able to take a single team or return data from all teams. Next, I wrote a [wrapper function](Wrapper function - Wikipedia) that is a one-stop-shop for the user to access any of the API endpoints. So essentially the user can get data from the NHL Stats API ad the NHL Records API.

Lastly, I did Exploratory Data Analysis.

In terms of finding something interesting, I found that most teams performed better at their home stadium as supposed to playing at their opponent’s stadium. This kind of makes sense to some degree because if your team went to a different stadium far away from your home stadium, you would have less fans to cheer the team up. What I am trying to say is that the team’s morale might not be high when playing at their opponent’s stadium. 

This kind of makes sense to me because of all the sports I have played as well.

# What was the most difficult part of the logic and programming for you

The most difficult part of this project was getting my function for the NHL Stats API and getting the wrapper function code to work. I would say it was hard because I really had to think of the logic of the code and see what would be the best way to solve it. Once I had that done, I had to make sure my code got the desired output.

# What would I do differently in approaching a similar project in the future

In terms of getting JSON data, not much. I felt like the functions in general for getting the JSON data was straightforward and easy because of one of the homeworks we did for getting JSON data. Maybe one thing I would do differently in approaching a similar project in the future would explore the API more and possibly write like a R package to it. 


To view my project, check out [https://mlee241.github.io/ST558Project1/](https://mlee241.github.io/ST558Project1/)
